---
layout: page
title: User Guide
---

The Employee Tracker allows small business owners to keep track of their employees' data using a single platform instead of having to deal with multiple data management tools.
Through a simple and intuitive graphical user interface, business owners can record and view their employees' information.

* Table of Contents
{:toc}

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Quick start

1. Ensure you have Java `11` or above installed in your Computer.
2. Download the latest `employeetracker.jar` [here](https://github.com/AY2021S2-TIC4002-F18-2/tp2/releases).
3. Copy `employeetracker.jar` to the folder you want to use as the home folder for Employee Tracker.
4. Navigate to the home folder for Employee Tracker on your CLI program.
5. Launch Employee Tracker by running the command `java -jar HRMS.jar`.
6. Type the command in the CLI program and press `Enter` to execute it.
   <br>Some example commands you can try:
    - `add n/Rachel Lee e/rachel@f18solutions.com.sg r/Designer a/BLK 730 Woodlands Road #15-150 c/91648917 d/2020-09-01 b/1988-01-02`: Adds an employee record.
    - `list`: Lists all employee records.
    - `delete 3`: Deletes the 3rd employee record shown in the current list.
    - `sort n`: Sorts all employee records based on `Name` in alphabetical order.
    - `find n Rachel` : Finds all employee records with `Rachel` in its `Name` field
7. Refer to **Features** below for details of each command.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Features

<div markdown="block" class="alert alert-info">

**:information_source: Notes about the command format:**<br>

* Words in `UPPER_CASE` are the parameters to be supplied by the user.<br>
  E.g. The parameter `INDEX` in the command `delete INDEX`.

* Parameters with `...` after them can be included multiple times<br>
  E.g. The parameter `KEYWORD` in the command `find TYPE KEYWORD...`.

* Parameters can be in any order.<br>
  E.g. The command `add` requires a few parameters such as `n/NAME`, `e/EMAIL` and `r/ROLE`. Placing these parameters in any order is acceptable.

* If a parameter is expected only once in the command but is specified multiple times, only the last occurrence of this parameter will be taken.<br>
  E.g. If `n/John Lam n/John Lee` is specified in the `add` command, only `n/John Lee` will be taken.

* Unneeded parameters for commands that do not take in parameters (such as `help`, `list`, `exit` and `clear`) will be ignored.<br>
  E.g. The command `help 123` will be interpreted as `help`.

</div>

### Viewing help : `help`

Shows the URL of the user manual.

Format: `help`

### Adding an employee record: `add`

Adds an employee record to the Employee Tracker.

Format: `add n/NAME r/ROLE c/PHONE_NUMBER e/EMAIL a/ADDRESS b/DATE_OF_BIRTH j/DATE_OF_JOINING s/SALARY [t/TAG]...`
* `PHONE_NUMBER` must be a number that is at least 3-digit long. E.g. `98714821`, `67617361`.
* `EMAIL` must be in local-part@domain format. E.g. `andy@f18tech.com.sg`.
* `DATE_OF_BIRTH` must be in yyyy-MM-dd format. E.g. `1990-12-25`.
* `DATE_OF_JOINING` must be in yyyy-MM-dd format. E.g. `2020-09-1`.
* `SALARY` must be a positive integer. E.g. `4000`, `3000`.
* `TAG` must be alphanumeric. E.g. `Founder`, `l33tCoder`

Example of usage:
* `add n/Rachel Lee r/Designer p/91648917 e/rachel@f18tech.com.sg a/BLK 730 Woodlands Road #15-150 b/1988-01-02 j/2020-09-01 s/8000 t/Founder t/l33tCoder`

### Listing all employee records：`list`

Lists all the employee records in the Human Resource Management System.

Format: `list`

### Deleting an employee record : `delete`

Deletes the specified employee from the Employee Tracker.

Format: `delete INDEX`
* `INDEX` refers to the index number shown in the list generated by the list command.
* `INDEX` must a positive integer. E.g. `1`, `2`, `3`...
* The employee record indicated by the index number will be deleted.

Examples of usage:
* `list` followed by `delete 2` deletes the 2nd employee record shown in the list of all employee records.
* `find n Rachel` followed by `delete 1` deletes the 1st employee record in the list generated by the `find` command.

### Sorting employee records: `sort`

Sorts the list of employee records in the Employee Tracker.

Format: `sort TYPE`
* `TYPE` must be the letter n, s, d or b.
* If `TYPE` is n, the employee records will be sorted based on name in alphabetical order.
* If `TYPE` is s, the employee records will be sorted based on salary in increasing order.
* If `TYPE` is d, the employee records will be sorted based on date of employment from the earliest date to the latest date.
* If `TYPE` is b, the employee records will be sorted based on date of birth from the earliest date to the latest date.

Example of usage:
* `sort d`

### Finding employee records : `find`

Finds employee records that have any of the given keywords in their name/role.

Format: `find TYPE KEYWORD...`
* `TYPE` must be the letter `n` or `r`.
* If `TYPE` is `n`, the search will be based on name.
* If `TYPE` is `r`, the search will be based on role.
* The search is case-insensitive. E.g. keyword `john` will match `John`.
* Only exact words will be matched. E.g. keyword `Jon` will not match `John`.
* Employee records matching at least one keyword will be returned. E.g. keywords `John Wong` will return `John Lam` and `Bernice Wong`.
* The employee record indicated by the index number will be deleted.

Examples of usage:
* `find n John Bernice Andy` 

### Clearing all employee records : `clear`

Clears all employee records from the Employee Tracker.

Format: `clear`

### Viewing summary statistics : `stats`

Shows summary statistics of employees.

Format: `stats`

### Exiting the program : `exit`

Exits the Employee Tracker app.

Format: `exit`

### Saving the data

There is no save command because any change to the data in the Employee Tracker will be automatically saved.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## FAQ

**Q**:
How do I transfer my data to another computer?

**A**:
Go to the Employee Tracker's root folder in the current computer.
Copy the data folder and paste it into the Employee Tracker's root folder in the new computer.
Click `Yes` if the system prompts you for confirmation of overwriting.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Command summary

Action | Format, Examples
--------|------------------
**Help** | `help`
**Add** | `add n/NAME e/EMAIL r/ROLE a/ADDRESS c/CONTACT_NUMBER s/SALARY d/DATE_OF_EMPLOYMENT b/DATE_OF_BIRTH` <br> E.g., `add n/Rachel Lee e/rachel@f18solutions.com.sg r/Designer a/BLK 730 Woodlands Road #15-150 c/91648917 d/2020-09-01 b/1988-01-02`
**List** | `list`
**Delete** | `delete INDEX`<br> E.g., `delete 2`
**Sort** | `sort TYPE` <br> E.g., `sort d`
**Find** | `find TYPE KEYWORD` <br> E.g.,`find n John Bernice Andy`
**Clear** | `clear`
